---
title: It’s been rough…but I’m still going
date: "2019-10-06T22:12:03.284Z"
---
From the time I wrote my first ‘Hello World’ in Python to this moment, a stressful journey of about a year and a half, programming has been one big aggressive case of imposter syndrome. And mine is cancerous, a major liability. I don’t know who can relate to this but when I feel it most, I just tuck in, close off from the world, and feel like chucking my computer out of the window!!
Coding is hard man. Anybody who says different is either a born genius or trying to be a show off. However, two things I’ve learned is it does slowly get easier, and nobody is absolutely perfect. And you know what? Every once in a while a solution comes to you without having to tear your hair out and it feels like you just found the cure for cancer. I’ve walked around the house, strutting my stuff and feeling like a genius lol. That happens about 1 in every 10 times I feel like I’m too dumb to function but I’ll take it. I’m sure it gets better.
Little more about me….. I’m a real estate agent/ basketball coach/ aspiring salsero/ bjj practicer with a passion for cooking, charity work, and my dog. Yea that’s the most compact way to describe myself I guess. Oh and on top of all that (especially recently) I’m an aspiring software engineer !! That’s why I’m writing this right now, because at some point in the next 5–50 years someone’s gonna come to me and say “Hey Brian, how’d you become such a successful millionaire entrepreneur/developer? You must’ve came out of the womb coding, right? OMG you’re such a genius.” And I’ll just laugh, take a step out of my flying car and say, “ Kid, if you only knew how this journey began, you’d know anybody can be successful with the right mentality and work ethic.”
So here, this is my first blog post. I started the Online Program over at Flatiron School a few months ago, and it’s been great so far. I’ve definitely had some drawbacks and fell off from sheer laziness and depression, but I’m really digging in these days and this blog is gonna document the journey moving forward until I’m too busy with my success to write anymore haha. Maybe I’ll have an AI robot that I designed write it for me then… I’m full of dreams huh.
Anyways, stick around and see me struggle and eventually succeed in this coding process. I’m looking to prove that anybody can do it if they try hard enough.