---
title: My First Project — — Complete!
date: "2019-11-14T22:12:03.284Z"
---
It took me wayyyyy too long to get there but I’m finally completing my CLI Data Gem Project. It’s been a long tough road so far but somehow I feel like I’m getting in the rhythm of understanding what programming is all about. I’ve learned firsthand that applying what you learn works wonders for the overall learning experience. From going back to old lessons, to youtube-ing because you never really understood the old lessons, to google-ing phrases or parts of what you’re trying to accomplish hoping there’s some type of documentation that solves your issue or somebody else on StackOverflow understands you and had the same problem. I’ve gained a new understanding of how to build out of what’s in my head and I’m glad I didn’t self destruct along the way. Soooo for the project itself. I created a CLI called KnicksTape that would give Knicks fans the opportunity to find out where and against who the Knicks are playing on any given date so they can make arrangements to attend a game, whether it’s at home or away.
So first I had to scrape the site that had the schedule….

I opened the site using Nokogiri, then once noticing that the data was contained in tables, I figured out what elements to use to call that data, and Scraped it. I separated each attribute that I would need (date, opponent and location) and lastly I call a new Game that includes all attributes.

In my Game class, I set a class variable that will hold all games. Then I set it so that when a new game is initialized, it must include a date, location and an opponent, plus it must throw the new game into the class variable. Next make it all readable and accessible, I set a class method that simply calls the “all” class variable. Lastly, I set 3 class methods, a find_by_date, a find_by_opponent, and a find_by_location method. Each of these will make it possible to search in all of the games and find the specific game that the user is searching for.

Finally, the CLI class. I call the scraper class and then welcome the user. After a short description, I ask the user if they would like to search for a game by date, opponent or location. This is where the finder methods from the game class come into play. If they select date, the user puts in a date, and this calls the print_by_date method. The print by date method takes the chosen date as an argument, and if there is a game on that date, it will tell the user where and who the Knicks are playing that day. If there is no game it will let the user know and give them the opportunity to choose another date. The CLI will also let the user know whether it is a home or an away game so they can decide whether or not they would like to buy a ticket. The same thing applies to the other options, location and opponent.
I’m definitely a little proud of myself and a little more confident. Hopefully this means I can tackle the rest of this course with more certainty!