---
title: Choosing the right Company as a Junior Dev
date: "2022-04-01T22:12:03.284Z"
---

As a new Software Engineer fresh out of a boot camp or the self taught route, I think I speak for everyone when I saw that the job search process can get stressful. Every junior dev job or internship post on LinkedIn has hundreds of applicants within hours and it feels like you’re just growing in a pool of people trying to achieve the same goal. And what separates you from the rest? Outside of your own bootcamp there are thousands of junior devs trying to get their first job in the field at the same time!

As a junior dev, you will probably fill out hundreds of applications and go through tens of interview processes until you finally get that first offer. I’m speaking from experience; mine isn’t the story of a genius young developer who networked my tail off before graduating bootcamp and signed an offer to a big tech company immediately after. It took me months of applying and interviewing to get my first role in SWE, and I believe picking the best company for your needs/personality is a subject that doesn’t get covered enough.

There’s a level of desperation that comes over an aspiring engineer as you attempt and fail to get through interview processes for your first job. We’re told that the interview is for you to see whether or not the company is a good fit for you as well; but let’s be honest, when you’re looking for that first job, any company that’s willing to pay you sounds like a PERFECT fit. However, joining a new company as a developer is an incredibly critical decision that can shape how you grow as an engineer, for better or worse. For example some people function really well in a startup environment, and some others need a bigger company to flourish.

As a junior developer, you must figure out what kind of organization style fits your personality best. If you’re a good self starter with confidence in your ability to manage your own work without much direct attention, a small start up may work for you. Often in small startups, you’ll be dealing with a company that’s trying to secure funding and has pretty tight deadlines to reach. In these cases, a junior dev has to be able to hit the ground running and knock out tasks quickly. Be honest with yourself; if you’re not going to be able to grasp concepts on the fly and move at the pace necessary, then this situation may not be best for you.

On the other hand, if you feel like a big support system is what you need, I recommend trying to find an internship or apprenticeship opportunity with a bigger company that has a system in place to foster and onboard juniors more comfortably. Now these opportunities may seem harder to get because of the competition of the field, but I really believe that waiting for the right opportunity can be better than rushing into the wrong one. All opportunities can be looked at as a learning experience but I’d hate to see a young developer give up early in their career because they were discouraged by an organization that wasn’t a good fit. If there’s anything close to as discouraging as the job search process, it’s a rough first job.

Take the time to “interview” your interviewers. Ask questions about the company culture, centered around what you’re looking for in a company, and pay attention to the answers. Be honest with yourself about whether or not it’s something you can deal with. It can also be very helpful to network with other people who have worked/currently work at the company and compare the answers to see if it all fits before making your final decision. It is very important to be intentional about your first job opportunity and don’t let desperation push you into making the wrong decision. The right company for you is out there and you can have a happy career!