---
title: Anniversary Blog Post
date: "2020-05-28T22:12:03.284Z"
---
I’ve officially been a student in the self paced full stack program at Flatiron School for a year now. It’s definitely taken a lot longer than I expected at the beginning. I originally had this vision of self motivating and completing the whole thing in about the same amount of time as it would take the full time students.
Well that wouldn’t happen. Many things were my fault, most things, and sometimes I thought maybe some things at the school could be improved. Being in a self paced program can be the most lonely experience in the world. But as I dive into these last units of study, I’m still full of pride and hope.
Well sometimes. I’ve been depressed, I’ve cried. I’ve felt like a genius and taken shots in celebration. The range of emotions that I’ve experienced learning to code has got to be a great preview of what life as a professional in the field will be like. At every step I’ve learned new lessons and I guess that’s the point right? To learn and grow into a better problem solver, a critical thinker, someone who perseveres through any obstacle, and any other synonyms you can think of that mean the same thing.
Yup, I definitely consider myself a “coder” now, and that’s the most satisfying part. Here are some of the things that helped me the most and things I would have done to make the experience better:
DON’T BE AFRAID TO ASK FOR HELP. Seriously, everyone needs help sometimes, even the pros. I follow lots of fellow devs on social media who have been doing this for over a decade and even they admit that this coding thing can be super difficult sometimes. This is something I definitely still need to improve on, but never be afraid to ask for some assistance; your leaders are eager to help you!
CONSISTENCY IS KEY! I’ve learned to treat coding languages like regular “speaking” languages. Currently, I consider myself proficient in Ruby, like on the way to fluency one day, and a super novice at Javascript, like I can barely have a conversation. One of the main keys to learning a new language is to practice it everyday, even if it’s for a few minutes. Same thing goes for these languages. You’ve got to read, write, speak, something every single day so it becomes 2nd nature. It may never get as familiar to you as the English language, or whatever your 1st language is, but you will definitely be much closer to that if you stick with it.
TAKE YOUR TIMEEEEE. As someone who had a preset date I wanted to finish the self paced program, I’ve got a lot of experience rushing through lessons and labs so I can reach a deadline. BAD IDEA. If you don’t understand iteration properly now, when you’re working on a project, it’ll be a burden to go back and figure out how to add that function. I’ve BS’ed my way through my share of classwork, and it’s come with lots of regrets. Then when it’s project time, I end up trying to find a way around the aspects I don’t really understand. Now, as a much wiser programmer, I plan to run through everything I have struggled with. The basics are super important.
Think that’s it for now. I’ll probably think of more as I finish this program. Hopefully I don’t have to write a 2 year anniversary post before that!